src/pages/studyclub.md, before:

---
displayed_sidebar: TechnologySidebar
---

# Study Club

RISC Zero's Study Club sessions aim to introduce the pre-requisite concepts necessary to understand our [technology](../../docs/explainers/)

## Upcoming Sessions
All meetings are held via Zoom [here](https://zoom.us/j/99200763534) at 9am PST / 12pm EST / 5PM UTC. 

- Mar 15 - Using Quotients in ZK Protocols: A Peek Inside STARKs
- Mar 29 - FRI Folding in Action: Splitting and Mixing Polynomial Commitments

Please note that Study Club sessions are recorded and will be uploaded to our [YouTube channel](http://www.youtube.com/@risczero).

## Past Sessions
Full recordings and slides from past sessions are available [here](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLcPzhUaCxlCjdhONxEYZ1dgKjZh3ZvPtl)

- [Intro to FRI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YiYN6UgE8sQ&list=PLcPzhUaCxlCi6rRRiIlkzJ_YELUlKO4Mz)
- [Intro Finite Fields](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g-GDvnJsZgg&list=PLcPzhUaCxlCiddOGuYdDbFlZhH8nwtR8D)
- [Intro to Reed-Solomon Codes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NHAuw2mkg0o&list=PLcPzhUaCxlCgPFYnnhDbsE-7H3scbtjye)
- [Intro to Number Theoretic Transforms (NTTs)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IFsxQUbI6x0&list=PLcPzhUaCxlChIKDDR_WghPQ1HeK01YHpa)
- [What RISC-V has to do with RISC Zero's zkVM](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=11DIflEwx50&list=PLcPzhUaCxlCjdhONxEYZ1dgKjZh3ZvPtl&index=5)
- [Finite Field Implementations: Algorithms for Fast Multiplication](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hUl8ZB6hpUM&list=PLcPzhUaCxlCjdhONxEYZ1dgKjZh3ZvPtl&index=6)

Commit message:

add & re-organize study club recordings (#164)
* add & re-organize study club recordings

* including pointer for talks & podcasts

* adding hyphen

src/pages/studyclub.md, after:

---
displayed_sidebar: TechnologySidebar
---

# Study Club

RISC Zero's Study Club sessions aim to introduce the pre-requisite concepts necessary to understand our [technology](../../docs/explainers/)

## Upcoming Sessions
Stay tuned for upcoming study club sessions! 
We'll post announcements here, on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/risczero), and on [Discord](https://discord.gg/risczero).

## Past Sessions
Full recordings and slides from past sessions are available [here](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLcPzhUaCxlCjdhONxEYZ1dgKjZh3ZvPtl)

### Zero-Knowledge Virtual Machines
- [What RISC-V has to do with RISC Zero's zkVM](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=11DIflEwx50&list=PLcPzhUaCxlCjdhONxEYZ1dgKjZh3ZvPtl&index=5)

### Mathematical Primitives
- [Intro Finite Fields](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g-GDvnJsZgg&list=PLcPzhUaCxlCiddOGuYdDbFlZhH8nwtR8D)
- [Finite Field Implementations: Algorithms for Fast Multiplication](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hUl8ZB6hpUM&list=PLcPzhUaCxlCjdhONxEYZ1dgKjZh3ZvPtl&index=6)
- [Intro to Number Theoretic Transforms (NTTs)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IFsxQUbI6x0&list=PLcPzhUaCxlChIKDDR_WghPQ1HeK01YHpa)
- [Intro to Reed-Solomon Codes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NHAuw2mkg0o&list=PLcPzhUaCxlCgPFYnnhDbsE-7H3scbtjye)

### ZK Protocol Design
- [Using Quotients in ZK Protocols: A Peek Inside STARKs and DEEP-ALI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LgQQHd9SzMs&list=PLcPzhUaCxlCjdhONxEYZ1dgKjZh3ZvPtl&index=8&t=4s)
- [Intro to FRI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YiYN6UgE8sQ&list=PLcPzhUaCxlCi6rRRiIlkzJ_YELUlKO4Mz)
- [FRI Mechanics: Folding, Committing, and Batching](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wqRuoyH3Mqk&list=PLcPzhUaCxlCjdhONxEYZ1dgKjZh3ZvPtl&index=8)

## Other Educational Videos
You may also be interested in some of our other [talks and podcasts](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MYYb5TXdm4c&list=PLcPzhUaCxlCgCvzkkaBWzVuHdBRsTNxj1) or our developer-focused workshops from [ZKHack III](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZFVjooWdXVE&list=PLcPzhUaCxlCgig7ofeARMPwQ8vbuD6hC5) and [ZKHack Lisbon](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=saVD9qo3aJ0).
