docs/technology.md, before:

---
slug: /explainers
displayed_sidebar: TechnologySidebar
---

# Technology

The RISC Zero zkVM is an `open-source, zero-knowledge virtual machine` that lets you build `trustless, verifiable software` in your favorite languages. 
For more information about our technology, check out the following resources: 

## Zero-knowledge Virtual Machine

- [**Understanding the zkVM**](explainers/zkvm/what_is_risc_zero.md) - These materials introduce what the zkVM is and what you can use it for. 

- [**zkVM FAQ**](faq.md) - This FAQ provides answers to commonly asked questions about the zkVM.


## Proof System

- [**RISC Zero Proof System Spec (draft)**](https://www.risczero.com/proof-system-in-detail.pdf) - A technical specification for the RISC Zero proof system.

- [**Proof System Explainers**](explainers/proof-system/proof-system.md) - These materials introduce the zero-knowledge proof system that makes it possible to build `trustless, verifiable software`. 

## Background and Reference Materials

- [**Reference Docs**](reference-docs/about-starks.md) - This section includes a variety of reference materials.

- [**RISC Zero Study Club**](../studyclub) - RISC Zero's Study Club sessions aim to introduce the pre-requisite concepts necessary to understand our technology.

Commit message:

adding link to tex file (#139)
* adding link to tex file

* adding bibliography file

* adding newline at end of file

Co-authored-by: Tim Zerrell <tim.zerrell@risczero.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Tim Zerrell <tim.zerrell@risczero.com>

docs/technology.md, after:

---
slug: /explainers
displayed_sidebar: TechnologySidebar
---

# Technology

The RISC Zero zkVM is an `open-source, zero-knowledge virtual machine` that lets you build `trustless, verifiable software` in your favorite languages. 
For more information about our technology, check out the following resources: 

## Zero-knowledge Virtual Machine

- [**Understanding the zkVM**](explainers/zkvm/what_is_risc_zero.md) - These materials introduce what the zkVM is and what you can use it for. 

- [**zkVM FAQ**](faq.md) - This FAQ provides answers to commonly asked questions about the zkVM.


## Proof System

- [**ZKP Whitepaper (draft)**](https://www.risczero.com/proof-system-in-detail.pdf) - A technical specification for the RISC Zero proof system. 
To suggest corrections, feel free to make a PR on the [tex file](https://github.com/risc0/website/blob/main/static/proof-system-in-detail.tex). 

- [**Proof System Overview**](explainers/proof-system/proof-system.md) - A gentler introduction to the RISC Zero proof system. 

## Background and Reference Materials

- [**Reference Docs**](reference-docs/about-starks.md) - This section includes a variety of reference materials.

- [**RISC Zero Study Club**](../studyclub) - RISC Zero's Study Club sessions aim to introduce the pre-requisite concepts necessary to understand our technology.
